docs/administrators/deploy.md, before:

# Deploy in production

In this documentation, it is expected that you're at ease with managing a webserver with PHP.
Nginx is used as the webserver in this documentation.
Apache should work as well, but it hasn't been tested.

**Warning:** Bileto is not ready for the production yet.
You’ll probably lose your data during an upgrade.

## Check the requirements

Check Git is installed:

```console
$ git --version
git version 2.38.1
```

Check PHP version (must be >= 8.1):

```console
$ php --version
PHP 8.1.12 ...
```

Check your database version.
If you use PostgreSQL (must be >= 11):

```console
$ psql --version
psql (PostgreSQL) 14.3
```

Or if you use MariaDB (must be >= 10.4):

```console
$ mariadb --version
mariadb 10.6.11-MariaDB
```

Check [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) is installed:

```console
$ composer --version
Composer version 2.4.4 2022-10-27 14:39:29
```

Check the following PHP extensions are installed:

- ctype
- iconv
- intl
- pdo + pdo\_pgsql or pdo\_mysql (depending on which database you use)
- sodium
- xsl
- zip

```console
$ php -m
[PHP Modules]
...
```

## Create the database

Create a dedicated user and database for Bileto.

With PostgreSQL:

```command
# sudo -u postgres psql
postgres=# CREATE DATABASE bileto_production;
postgres=# CREATE USER bileto_user WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'secret';
postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE bileto_production TO bileto_user;
```

With MariaDB:

```console
# mariadb -u root -p
MariaDB [(none)]> CREATE DATABASE bileto_production;
MariaDB [(none)]> CREATE USER 'bileto_user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'secret';
MariaDB [(none)]> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON bileto_production.* TO 'bileto_user'@'localhost';
MariaDB [(none)]> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

## Download the code

You may want to put Bileto under a specific folder on your server, for instance:

```console
$ cd /var/www/
```

Clone the code:

```console
$ git clone https://github.com/Probesys/bileto.git
```

If your user doesn't have the permission to write in this folder, execute the command as `root`.

## About file permissions

You’ll have to make sure that the system user that runs the webserver can access the files under the `/var/www/bileto` directory.
This user is often `www-data`, `apache` or `nginx`.
In this documentation, we’ll use `www-data` because it is the most generic name.

Set the owner of the files to the user that runs your webserver:

```console
$ cd /var/www/bileto
$ sudo chown -R www-data:www-data .
```

From now on, you must execute the commands as the user `www-data`.
You can either start a shell for this user (to execute as root):

```console
# su www-data -s /bin/bash
www-data$ cd /var/www/bileto
```

Or prefix **all** the commands with `sudo -u www-data`.
For instance:

```console
$ sudo -u www-data php bin/console
```

If your current user is not in the sudoers list, you’ll need to execute the `sudo` commands as `root`.

The commands that need to be executed as `www-data` **will be prefixed by `www-data$` instead of simply `$` in the rest of the documentation.**

## Switch to the latest version

Checkout the code to the latest version of Bileto:

```
www-data$ git checkout $(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1))
```

Go to GitHub if you want to find [the full list of releases](https://github.com/Probesys/bileto/releases).

## Configure the application

Create a `.env.local` file:

```console
www-data$ cp env.sample .env.local
```

And edit the variables to your needs.
The file is commented to help you to change it.

**Restrict the permissions on this file:**

```console
www-data$ chmod 400 .env.local
```

## Install the dependencies

Install the Composer dependencies:

```console
www-data$ composer install --no-dev --optimize-autoloader
```

You don't need to install the NPM dependencies because the assets are already pre-built for production.

## Setup the database

Initialize the database:

```console
www-data$ php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --no-interaction
www-data$ php bin/console db:seeds:load
```

## Configure the webserver

Configure your webserver to serve Bileto.
With Nginx:

```nginx
server {
    server_name bileto.example.com;
    root /var/www/bileto/public;

    location / {
        try_files $uri /index.php$is_args$args;
    }

    location ~ ^/index\.php(/|$) {
        fastcgi_pass unix:/run/php/php8.1-fpm.sock;
        fastcgi_split_path_info ^(.+\.php)(/.*)$;
        include fastcgi_params;

        fastcgi_param SCRIPT_FILENAME $realpath_root$fastcgi_script_name;
        fastcgi_param DOCUMENT_ROOT $realpath_root;

        internal;
    }

    location ~ \.php$ {
        return 404;
    }

    error_log /var/log/nginx/bileto_error.log;
    access_log /var/log/nginx/bileto_access.log;
}
```

Check the configuration is correct:

```console
$ nginx -t
```

And reload Nginx:

```console
$ systemctl reload nginx
```

Open Bileto in your web browser: it should display the login page.

## Setup the Messenger worker

The Messenger worker performs asynchronous jobs.
It's a sort of Cron mechanism on steroids.
We'll use Systemd in this documentation, but note that the only requirement is that a command needs to run in the background.

Create the file `/etc/systemd/system/bileto-worker.service`:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=The Messenger worker for Bileto

[Service]
ExecStart=php /var/www/bileto/bin/console messenger:consume async scheduler_default --time-limit=3600

User=www-data
Group=www-data

Restart=always
RestartSec=30

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

Enable and start the service:

```console
# systemctl enable bileto-worker
# systemctl start bileto-worker
```

You can find the logs with:

```console
# journalctl -f -u bileto-worker@service
```

## Create your users

You must create your first user with the command line:

```console
www-data$ php bin/console app:users:create --email=user@example.com --password=secret
```

**Important note:** users created with the command line have "super-admin" permissions and can do anything in Bileto.

Then, try to login via the interface, it should work.
You can start using Bileto now.

Commit message:

doc: Improve the doc to check requirements in production

docs/administrators/deploy.md, after:

# Deploy in production

In this documentation, it is expected that you're at ease with managing a webserver with PHP.
Nginx is used as the webserver in this documentation.
Apache should work as well, but it hasn't been tested.

**Warning:** Bileto is not ready for the production yet.
You’ll probably lose your data during an upgrade.

## Check the requirements

Check Git is installed:

```console
$ git --version
git version 2.38.1
```

Check PHP version (must be >= 8.1):

```console
$ php --version
PHP 8.1.12 ...
```

Check your database version.
If you use PostgreSQL (must be >= 11):

```console
$ psql --version
psql (PostgreSQL) 14.3
```

Or if you use MariaDB (must be >= 10.4):

```console
$ mariadb --version
mariadb 10.6.11-MariaDB
```

Check [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) is installed:

```console
$ composer --version
Composer version 2.4.4 2022-10-27 14:39:29
```

## Create the database

Create a dedicated user and database for Bileto.

With PostgreSQL:

```command
# sudo -u postgres psql
postgres=# CREATE DATABASE bileto_production;
postgres=# CREATE USER bileto_user WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'secret';
postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE bileto_production TO bileto_user;
```

With MariaDB:

```console
# mariadb -u root -p
MariaDB [(none)]> CREATE DATABASE bileto_production;
MariaDB [(none)]> CREATE USER 'bileto_user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'secret';
MariaDB [(none)]> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON bileto_production.* TO 'bileto_user'@'localhost';
MariaDB [(none)]> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

## Download the code

You may want to put Bileto under a specific folder on your server, for instance:

```console
$ cd /var/www/
```

Clone the code:

```console
$ git clone https://github.com/Probesys/bileto.git
$ cd bileto
```

If your user doesn't have the permission to write in this folder, execute the command as `root`.

## Check the PHP extensions

Check that the PHP extensions are installed:

```console
$ composer check-platform-reqs
Checking platform requirements for packages in the vendor dir
composer-plugin-api  2.3.0      success
composer-runtime-api 2.2.2      success
ext-ctype            8.1.10     success
...
ext-zip              1.19.5     success
php                  8.1.10     success
```

If requirements are not met, you’ll have to install the missing extensions.

## About file permissions

You’ll have to make sure that the system user that runs the webserver can access the files under the `/var/www/bileto` directory.
This user is often `www-data`, `apache` or `nginx`.
In this documentation, we’ll use `www-data` because it is the most generic name.

Set the owner of the files to the user that runs your webserver:

```console
$ sudo chown -R www-data:www-data .
```

From now on, you must execute the commands as the user `www-data`.
You can either start a shell for this user (to execute as root):

```console
# su www-data -s /bin/bash
www-data$ cd /var/www/bileto
```

Or prefix **all** the commands with `sudo -u www-data`.
For instance:

```console
$ sudo -u www-data php bin/console
```

If your current user is not in the sudoers list, you’ll need to execute the `sudo` commands as `root`.

The commands that need to be executed as `www-data` **will be prefixed by `www-data$` instead of simply `$` in the rest of the documentation.**

## Switch to the latest version

Checkout the code to the latest version of Bileto:

```
www-data$ git checkout $(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1))
```

Go to GitHub if you want to find [the full list of releases](https://github.com/Probesys/bileto/releases).

## Configure the application

Create a `.env.local` file:

```console
www-data$ cp env.sample .env.local
```

And edit the variables to your needs.
The file is commented to help you to change it.

**Restrict the permissions on this file:**

```console
www-data$ chmod 400 .env.local
```

## Install the dependencies

Install the Composer dependencies:

```console
www-data$ composer install --no-dev --optimize-autoloader
```

You don't need to install the NPM dependencies because the assets are already pre-built for production.

## Setup the database

Initialize the database:

```console
www-data$ php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --no-interaction
www-data$ php bin/console db:seeds:load
```

## Configure the webserver

Configure your webserver to serve Bileto.
With Nginx:

```nginx
server {
    server_name bileto.example.com;
    root /var/www/bileto/public;

    location / {
        try_files $uri /index.php$is_args$args;
    }

    location ~ ^/index\.php(/|$) {
        fastcgi_pass unix:/run/php/php8.1-fpm.sock;
        fastcgi_split_path_info ^(.+\.php)(/.*)$;
        include fastcgi_params;

        fastcgi_param SCRIPT_FILENAME $realpath_root$fastcgi_script_name;
        fastcgi_param DOCUMENT_ROOT $realpath_root;

        internal;
    }

    location ~ \.php$ {
        return 404;
    }

    error_log /var/log/nginx/bileto_error.log;
    access_log /var/log/nginx/bileto_access.log;
}
```

Check the configuration is correct:

```console
$ nginx -t
```

And reload Nginx:

```console
$ systemctl reload nginx
```

Open Bileto in your web browser: it should display the login page.

## Setup the Messenger worker

The Messenger worker performs asynchronous jobs.
It's a sort of Cron mechanism on steroids.
We'll use Systemd in this documentation, but note that the only requirement is that a command needs to run in the background.

Create the file `/etc/systemd/system/bileto-worker.service`:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=The Messenger worker for Bileto

[Service]
ExecStart=php /var/www/bileto/bin/console messenger:consume async scheduler_default --time-limit=3600

User=www-data
Group=www-data

Restart=always
RestartSec=30

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

Enable and start the service:

```console
# systemctl enable bileto-worker
# systemctl start bileto-worker
```

You can find the logs with:

```console
# journalctl -f -u bileto-worker@service
```

## Create your users

You must create your first user with the command line:

```console
www-data$ php bin/console app:users:create --email=user@example.com --password=secret
```

**Important note:** users created with the command line have "super-admin" permissions and can do anything in Bileto.

Then, try to login via the interface, it should work.
You can start using Bileto now.
