.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Related issue(s)

<!-- Copy-paste the URL to the related issue(s) if any ("N/A" if not applicable). -->

## How to test manually

<!-- List actions (step by step) of what have to be done in order to test your
  -- changes manually ("N/A" if not applicable). -->

## Checklist

<!-- Make sure all the todos are checked before asking for review. If you think
  -- one of the item isn’t applicable to this PR, please check it anyway and
  -- precise "N/A" next to it.
  -- Get help: https://github.com/Probesys/bileto/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#open-a-pull-request-pr
  -->

- [ ] code is manually tested
- [ ] permissions / authorizations are verified
- [ ] data can be imported correctly
- [ ] interface works on both mobiles and big screens
- [ ] interface works in both light and dark modes
- [ ] interface works on both Firefox and Chrome
- [ ] accessibility has been tested
- [ ] tests are up-to-date
- [ ] locales are synchronized
- [ ] copyright notices are up to date
- [ ] documentation is up to date (including migration notes)

Commit message:

dev: Update the instructions for pull requests
The checklist must now be filled by the reviewer to ease the
contributions.

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Related issue(s)

<!-- Copy-paste the URL to the related issue(s) if any ("N/A" if not applicable).
  -->

## How to test manually

<!-- List actions (step by step) of what have to be done in order to test your
  -- changes manually ("N/A" if not applicable).
  -->

## Checklist

<!-- Please don't change or remove this checklist. It will be used by the
  -- reviewer to make sure to not forget important things.
  -- Reviewer: if you think one of the item isn’t applicable to this PR,
  -- please check it anyway.
  -- Get help: https://github.com/Probesys/bileto/blob/main/docs/developers/review.md
  -->

- [ ] Code is manually tested
- [ ] Permissions / authorizations are verified
- [ ] New data can be imported
- [ ] Interface works on both mobiles and big screens
- [ ] Interface works in both light and dark modes
- [ ] Interface works on both Firefox and Chrome
- [ ] Accessibility has been tested
- [ ] Translations are synchronized
- [ ] Tests are up to date
- [ ] Copyright notices are up to date
- [ ] Documentation is up to date
- [ ] Pull request has been reviewed and approved
