docs/developers/buttons.md, before:

# Working with the buttons

Buttons elements (`<button>`) are styled by default.

To apply a button style to a different element, you can add the `.button` class to this element.
Be careful about accessibility though!
[Learn more about the ARIA button role.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/button_role)

## Primary button

You can style a button as primary:

```html
<button class="button--primary" type="submit">
    Save changes
</button>
```

As far as possible, you should avoid adding multiple primary buttons on a single page.

## Icon button

Sometimes, a button contains a single icon without text (you must add a `.sr-only` text for screen readers though).
You can adapt this button to be completely rounded with the correct class:

```twig
<button class="button--icon">
    {{ icon('pen-to-square') }}

    <span class="sr-only">
        Configure the priority
    </span>
</button>
```

## Discreet buttons

Some buttons have small importance.
These are for actions that aren't in the default workflow, such as a button to sort items, or to access secondary actions.
Such buttons can be made smaller to attract less attention:

```html
<button class="button--discreet">
    Sort by
</button>
```

There is an alternative form that uses the primary color and with a slightly bolder font.
Actually, this form is used for buttons that remove elements from a dynamic list.

```html
<button class="button--discreet-alt" aria-label="Unselect Alix Hambourg">
    Alix Hambourg
</button>
```

## Anchor button

It is possible to style buttons as links.
**This is generally not recommended as such buttons offer bad affordance.**
Sometimes, it can be useful to keep the interface elegant though.

```html
<button class="button--anchor">
    Show the advanced syntax
</button>
```

## Buttons group

You can group buttons that complement each other.
It is useful to add secondary actions to a button in a popover for instance.
Note that you must use an additional `.button-group__item` class on the buttons that are part of the group.

```twig
<div class="button-group">
    <button class="button-group__item" type="submit">
        Answer
    </button>

    <details class="popup">
        <summary class="popup__opener">
            <span class="button button-group__item">
                {{ icon('angle-down') }}

                <span class="sr-only">
                    Select a different method to answer.
                </span>
            </span>
        </summary>

        <nav class="popup__container">
            <!-- ... -->
        </nav>
    </details>
</div>
```

Commit message:

dev: Provide a button--ghost variant

docs/developers/buttons.md, after:

# Working with the buttons

Buttons elements (`<button>`) are styled by default.

To apply a button style to a different element, you can add the `.button` class to this element.
Be careful about accessibility though!
[Learn more about the ARIA button role.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/button_role)

## Primary button

You can style a button as primary:

```html
<button class="button--primary" type="submit">
    Save changes
</button>
```

As far as possible, you should avoid adding multiple primary buttons on a single page.

## Icon button

Sometimes, a button contains a single icon without text (you must add a `.sr-only` text for screen readers though).
You can adapt this button to be completely rounded with the correct class:

```twig
<button class="button--icon">
    {{ icon('pen-to-square') }}

    <span class="sr-only">
        Configure the priority
    </span>
</button>
```

## Discreet buttons

Some buttons have small importance.
These are for actions that aren't in the default workflow, such as a button to sort items, or to access secondary actions.
Such buttons can be made smaller to attract less attention:

```html
<button class="button--discreet">
    Sort by
</button>
```

There is an alternative form that uses the primary color and with a slightly bolder font.
Actually, this form is used for buttons that remove elements from a dynamic list.

```html
<button class="button--discreet-alt" aria-label="Unselect Alix Hambourg">
    Alix Hambourg
</button>
```

## Ghost button

Ghost buttons are similar to discreet buttons, but should be used only in places that already contain a lot of information.
Their border color is transparent by default, making them less intrusive.
They should only be used for secondary actions.

```html
<button class="button--ghost">
    Edit
</button>
```

## Anchor button

It is possible to style buttons as links.
**This is generally not recommended as such buttons offer bad affordance.**
Sometimes, it can be useful to keep the interface elegant though.

```html
<button class="button--anchor">
    Show the advanced syntax
</button>
```

## Buttons group

You can group buttons that complement each other.
It is useful to add secondary actions to a button in a popover for instance.
Note that you must use an additional `.button-group__item` class on the buttons that are part of the group.

```twig
<div class="button-group">
    <button class="button-group__item" type="submit">
        Answer
    </button>

    <details class="popup">
        <summary class="popup__opener">
            <span class="button button-group__item">
                {{ icon('angle-down') }}

                <span class="sr-only">
                    Select a different method to answer.
                </span>
            </span>
        </summary>

        <nav class="popup__container">
            <!-- ... -->
        </nav>
    </details>
</div>
```
